---
title: 'Benford's Law'
date: 2022-05-24
permalink: /posts/2022/05/24/
tags:
  - Math
---

This spurred up after a discussion at BTL.

### Benfords Law and application in the real world

According to my reading Benford's law states that any real world dataset which has data in orders of magnitude has more ones than two, more twos than three. Approx 33.1% times 1 appears as the most significant digit followed by 2 than 3. Thus an exponential decay is obtained for all those natural numbers. As mentioned earlier that it is applied to data that is in orders of magnitude so uniform/normal doesn't always follow this law. But it has wide ranging applications like finding financial frauds, electricity bills, size of rivers and even number of covid cases reported by different states in India. Apparently in terms of Covid Cases the states which did not follow this trend were UP and Harayana. During 2020 Presidential election their were speculation that Biden’s voting graph did not follow but that was later disproved as it was first applied only to first digit and Chicago’s population was distributed normally so as a natural consequence it should not follow this law. Later Stand up Maths also showed that the last digit checks for Trump showed significant error and he sensed something fishy but all this is mere speculation. Many shows have adopted this method like Ozark. WIkipedia is a good source for this. Also any series that follows power law or is expanded geometrically strongly follows Benford's Law like Fibonacci.
